## Good Design
- Good designs are hard because we don't have a human prediction method
- Impossible to come up with all possible scenerio 
- Another reason is that the UI are not standardlize - the user has to re-learn a new UI on a new platform
- Poor design can results in injuries, bad reviews, more product training, decrease in sales  
- Waterfall and user-centered design methods (be able to compare and contrast)
- Waterfall cycle : Requirements analysis <-> design <-> code <-> test <-> matainence 
- User-centered : see L01-p18
- Functional, usability, and user experience requirements—be able to formulate these correctly from user’s perspective; know the differences between them
- Functionality requirements : what should the user accomplihed from your software. 
-- ex: user must be able to set up an appointment 
- Usability requirements : Establish user performance goal for your software
-- # or errors, task completion time , safety metrics, time to learn, how long remembered ocne learned 
-- ex: user must be able to set up an appointment in 20 sec
- User Experience requirements : Establish a user subjective experience goal
-- subjective experience metric : easy to use, fun, enjoyable, entertaining, rewarding, helpful, motivating, confident 
-- example: on the scale from 1-5 user must rate the system 4
- How to produce a good design?
-- have a growth mindset instead of fixed 
-- get better by doing 

## L02 - Norman Concepts
- Design concepts are generalize abstractions - these are derived from theory-base knowledge, experience and common sense 
- affordance - An affordance is the possibility of an action on an object or environment.  Afforance is the relationship the agent has with the object and not the object properties 
- Signifiers - where the action should take place (labels, markers, sounds or other perceivable indicator)
- Mapping - the relationship between a control and its effect in the real world 
- Feedback - is about sending back information about what action has been done and what has been accomplished, allowing the person to continue with the activity. Various kinds of feedback are available for interaction design-audio, tactile, verbal, and combinations of these.
- Conceptual model - is the mental model a person forms that relates their interaction with an interface to the underlying thing the interface controls. It is the explanatory framework a person has to explain how a control operates something.
- Visibility – The more visible functions are, the more likely users will be able to know what to do next. Incontrast, when functions are "out of sight," it makes them more difficult to find and know how to use.
- Consistency – This refers to designing interfaces to have similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar tasks.

## L03 
- Constraints : Physical, Cultural, Semantics, Logical 
- Physical : There is only one possible solution 
- Cultural : Imagine facing the wall in an elevator 
- Semantics: What is the meaning of the situtation.  When you sit in the car, you would face forward for backward 
- Logical : When all peices fit - the only one left should go to the only remaining spot 
- Cultural norms: 
- Transfer effects: Prior experience influences what functionality we expect for an object and how we operate an object

## Chapter 3
- Activity-centered control - Design around the activities and not the device itself.  i.e. an auditurium would have a theather settings, presentation settings ect..  a device shouldnt focus on its acitvity i.e. do not make the user go to 3 different pages to change sounds, color, volume
- Forcing function - a form of physical constraint (a car require car key to start)
- Interlock - force operation in sequence i.e. microwave i.e going from park to drive without pressing gas pedal
- Lockins - keeps an operation active.  i.e. quitting without saving 
- Lockouts - prevents someone from causing an action until the desired operations has been done.  i.e. lockout basement door. 
- The interpretation of a perceived affordance is a cultural convention.
- CONVENTIONS ARE CULTURAL CONSTRAINTS - i.e. group calculator 
- People doesnt like change in convention - thats why US still using US scale instead of metrics 
- Sounds as signifier.  Some system require sounds as knowledge feedback so user can proceed
- Skeuomorphic is the technical term for incorporating old, familiar ideas into new technologies

## L04 
- 7 stages of action model
- Bridge of execution (Establish goal - plan - specify - perform) - world Bride of evaluation (perceive - intepret - compare)
- Gulf of Execution occurs when user can’t map intention to action
- Gulf of Evaluation occurs when user can’t tell whether action succeeded
- Visceral emotions generated in performing and perceiving: calmness or anxiety
- Behavioral emotions generated by expectations relative to  specifying or interpreting: Relief or despair
- Reflective emotions generated by planning or comparing: satisfaction, pride, blame

## L05
- Gather materials
 - Description of characteristics of typical users
 - List of core tasks that focus on areas of design that need to be evaluated. 
 - Correct sequences of actions for each task
 - Representation of user interface to be evaluated
- Walk through correct action sequences from perspective of typical users, asking the following questions at each step:
 - Will the user know what to do next to achieve task? (Form correct goal?)
 - Will the user notice how to perform the correct action? (Gulf of execution?)
 - Will the user interpret the system response correctly? (Gulf of evaluation?)
- Record successes, failures (and why the interface fails), design suggestions, and comments
- Brainstorm potential solutions to problems identified
